In this video, you are going to see a
live example of me taking on the level
one speech number four of the
Toastmasters Pathways program, which is
all about evaluation and feedback. But
before I get there, if you haven't
already checked out this video that's
popping up, this is the one where I
explain what you need to do to prepare
for this speech if you are taking it on
within the Toastmasters program. All
right, let's check out my example.
Taking on this particular speech, there
is one thing you can do to take your
next speech to a much higher level. This
one particular thing is backed by
behavioral research and will not only
establish trust with your audience very
quickly, but also keep them engaged
throughout the entire presentation.
The best part, I've already shown you
what it is. Mr. Toastmaster, fellow
Toast Masters here in person, our
welcome guests, James and Allison on
Zoom. One of our newest Toast Masters,
Allison, recently sent me a video
interview, which is an episode of the
podcast,
The Diary of a CEO, which is a podcast
hosted by Steven Bartlett. And on this
particular episode that Allison sent me,
it was featuring Vanessa Van Edwards.
Now, Vanessa Van Edwards is a
self-proclaimed recovering awkward
person who always struggled with
communication skills. And she assumed
that it boiled down to the fact that
some people are born with charisma and
others don't have it. But over time, she
studied this more and more as she grew
later in life, and she started to
understand that there are communication
skills, things that we can do in
everyday conversations that allow us to
be more effective communicators.
She's authored several books and she was
asked to give a TED presentation. And
prior to doing that, in very Vanessa Van
Edwards style, she wanted to do the
research to understand what makes the
best TED talks the best and what makes
the least viewed or the least popular
TED talks not so great. So she reviewed
hundreds and hundreds of these TED talks
and what she found was that there was
one common factor. The things that were
the best had a factor versus those that
were the least viewed.
That was the use of hand gestures.
The most popular TED talks in their
18minute duration had an average of 470
hand gestures per 18minute presentation.
The least viewed or the least popular
TED talks had an average of 270. So
nearly double as many hand gestures were
being used more popular presentations
than the less popular. And what Vanessa
explains is that this actually makes
sense from an evolutionary point of
view. So if we go back to the caveman
days,
a caveman would look at another caveman
at the hands. That was the first thing
that would be viewed because the caveman
would want to know, is this fellow
caveman a friend or is it a foe yielding
a weapon? And we might not know this,
but subconsciously when we see someone
walk in the room, that is one of the
first places our eyes go as well is to
the hands. So if you as a speaker come
to the front of the room and the first
thing you do is bring your hands up like
this and start to use them, instantly
without even knowing it, subconsciously
you're building trust with your
audience.
The second reason hand gestures are
really important is the short attention
spans that people have. It is tough to
keep people's attention for five to
seven minutes, let alone for an hour
keynote presentation. But by using these
hand gestures, we keep people more
engaged. And beyond that, people are
more likely to believe what we're doing
with our hands than the words that we're
saying. This goes back to some research
from Albert Morabian in the 1960s who
wanted to understand how a message is
broken down. And what he found was that
55% of a messages importance has to do
with body language alone. 55% only 7%
has to do with the actual words that we
speak. Because if I tell you I went
fishing and I caught a really huge fish,
there's a conflict happening here. The
other piece as well is that when we
don't see a speaker's hands for a little
while, there's a little bit of
discomfort that happens. You may be
looking at me right now and saying,
"What is he doing with why can't I see
his hands? What's happening?" But as
soon as I bring those hands out once
again, you can relax and you have that
trust reestablished. I watched this
entire 2hour 40minute interview because
I was fascinated if there were any more
tips on public speaking and most of the
conversation was about onetoone
communication. But there was one other
thing that Vanessa pointed out which I
thought was brilliant and that is the
idea of using the stage strategically.
So what Vanessa says is pick one side of
the stage to use when you're talking
about data and analytics and then when
you flip into story or creative form use
the other side of the stage. You see our
brains are broken into two different
parts. The logical side and the creative
side. And by strategically doing this,
by talking about data on one side, the
audience will recognize these patterns
and it's easier to compartmentalize.
The final idea was using the stage as a
timeline. So if I'm talking about my
earliest days as a toastmaster when I
was really nervous about public
speaking, I can stand here, which is the
right side of the stage for me, but it's
the left side of your view, which would
be the beginning of a timeline. And then
I talk about gaining some skill sets a
couple years into Toast Masters using
hand gestures and eye contact. And then
by year five, maybe I've earned my DTM
and I've gotten through pathways.
You've seen this natural progression.
And if I want to go back and talk about
those early days again, I should move to
this side of the stage. Essentially,
this interview with Vanessa really
pointed out that body language is so
incredibly essential when we give a
presentation. But if there's one single
takeaway, one way to make your next
speech incredible,
use those hands. Thanks everyone.
There you have it. I overall was pretty
happy with how this speech went. The
whole point of level one, speech number
four, is all about getting evaluation
and feedback. And so I didn't want to
overprepare for this speech, if that
makes sense. I still practiced a number
of times, but I purposefully wanted to
get the feedback and the evaluation so
that I could take that and then redo the
speech in a couple of weeks given
whatever it was that the evaluator had
to say. And I was fortunate to be
evaluated by somebody who is really a
pro in our club. She is a distinguished
toastmaster, has probably 15 years of
experience in Toast Masters, and she
always pushes me to raise to the next
level. And so her feedback was first
off, she felt like I was a little bit
rigid, like I was so focused on bringing
up the hand gestures to complement what
I was talking about in the speech that
my shoulders were a little bit tense.
And so she challenged me to relax for
the next speech and be a little bit more
natural with some of that body language,
which I thought was fair feedback. Her
other suggestion or gift was to change
my outfit. She said that I kind of
blended in with the all-white and of
course my my skin tone is sort of like
my sweater here and I blend into the
white background behind as well. and she
suggested as a wardrobe choice in my
next speech to use a little bit more
color and something that will allow me
to pop out a little bit more, which
again I've never received that type of
feedback before, but I thought it was a
good suggestion and I will listen to
what she had to say. In watching back my
own speech on the video that you just
watched, there were a couple things.
One, from a technical standpoint, there
was a bit of staticky noise. I tried to
hide the wire through my sweater that I
was recording with for the microphone
and I think it kept bumping against my
chest which made a little bit of a
staticky sound. My apologies if that was
a bit painful to listen to on the
recording and I didn't love my movement
and sometimes I feel like at Toast
Masters I'm a little bit restricted with
the Zoom audience and a relatively
narrow field of view. I would have liked
to have used the stage a little bit more
strategically and following some of the
suggestions of Vanessa Van Edwards. I
went through all of the pieces of
feedback that I received on all of the
sheets of paper. Some other things that
were pointed out. One had to do with the
fact that sometimes I draw my sentences
on and rather than having a filler word,
it's sort of my way of stalling before I
merge into the next sentence. And the
challenge there was to be a little bit
more concise.
Overall, that was pretty much all of the
gifts or negative feedback. I shouldn't
say negative feedback, constructive
feedback. A lot of people appreciated
the speech. They thought I did a really
good job, which was always nice to hear.
And so my next plan is to redo this
exact same speech, taking those little
pieces of advice to make it even better.
But I hope this example video gives you
a good idea of how you can approach
speech number four in level one of
pathways. No matter which path you're
on, evaluation and feedback is the core.
And that's what I would suggest to you.
Don't overthink it. Do a speech that
you're comfortable with, something that
allows you to incorporate body language,
vocal variety,
practice a bit, but then allow yourself
that room for growth and to really take
in the suggestions you get from the
evaluation and feedback. I appreciate
you watching this video, and if you
haven't yet subscribed to my channel,
please do so. I ran the stats. Only 10%
of people who watch my videos are
actually subscribed to the channel. So,
if these videos provide you with value
and you haven't subscribed yet, hit that
subscribe button. It is the best way to
help out me and my channel. Thank you so
much for watching this